1.13 release announcement and notes (#10849)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13/change-notes/index.md

- **Fixed** an issue causing HTTP/1.0 requests to be rejected (with a `426 Upgrade Required` error) in some cases.
  ([Issue #36707](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36707))

- **Fixed** an issue where using `ISTIO_MUTUAL` TLS mode in Gateways while also setting `credentialName` cause mutual TLS to not be configured.
This configuration is now rejected, as `ISTIO_MUTUAL` is intended to be used without `credentialName` set.
The old behavior can be retained by configuring the `PILOT_ENABLE_LEGACY_ISTIO_MUTUAL_CREDENTIAL_NAME=true` environment variable in Istiod.

- **Fixed** an issue where changes in a delegate VirtualService do not take effect when RDS cache is enabled.
  ([Issue #36525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36525))

- **Fixed** an issue causing mTLS errors for traffic on port 22, by including port 22 in iptables by default.
  ([Issue #35733](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35733))

- **Fixed** an issue causing hostnames overlapping the cluster domain (such as `example.local`) to generate invalid routes.
  ([Issue #35676](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35676))

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

 **Fixed** an issue that if duplicated cipher suites were configured in Gateway, they were pushed to Envoy configuration. With this fix, duplicated cipher
 suites will be ignored and logged.
 ([Issue #36805](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36805))
 
```

- **Fixed** a couple of issues in the ext-authz filter affecting the behavior of the gRPC check response API. Please
see the [Envoy release note](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/version_history/v1.20.0#bug-fixes) for more
details of the bug fixes if you are using authorization policies with the ext-authz gRPC extension provider in Istio.
([Issue #35480](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35480))

## Telemetry

- **Added** configuration for selecting service name generation scheme in Envoy-generated trace spans.
  ([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162) and [#12644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/12644))

- **Added** Common Expression Language (CEL) filter support for access logs.
  ([Issue #36514](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36514))

- **Added** access logging providers and controls for access log filtering to
the Telemetry API.

- **Added** an option to set whether the Request ID generated by the sidecar should be used when determining the sampling strategy for tracing.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Added** configurable service-cluster naming scheme support.
([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162))

```

- **Updated** istiod deployment to respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
  ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))

- **Fixed** an issue where the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane has active proxies connected.
  ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))

- **Fixed** omission of the `.Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault` setting in the default revision mutating webhook, and added `--auto-inject-namespaces` flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
  ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))

- **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with Helm values did not take effect.
  ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))

- **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the Helm chart to be used as a chart dependency.
  ([Issue #35495](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35495))

- **Fixed** that the Helm chart generated an invalid manifest when given boolean or numeric values for environment variables.
  ([Issue #36946](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36946))

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  **Fixed** detection of `prometheus.io.scrape` annotations when merging metrics.
  ([Issue #31187](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31187))
  
```

---
title: Istio 1.13 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.13.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.13.0 change notes.

> publishdate: 2021-02-08

Reviewer: Note the date here is 2021, and should be 2022.

Reviewer 2: Fixed.

> publishdate: 2021-02-08

Reviewer: One other thing, passed on looking at past Change Notes, is we usually group the same types of changes together under each heading, and they seem to be in an Improved, Updated, Added, Fixed, Promoted order.

Reviewer: Looks like we still want to reorder these into the groups.

- **Fixed** an issue causing HTTP/1.0 requests to be rejected (with a `426 Upgrade Required` error) in some cases.
  ([Issue #36707](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36707))

- **Fixed** an issue where using `ISTIO_MUTUAL` TLS mode in Gateways while also setting `credentialName` cause mutual TLS to not be configured.
This configuration is now rejected, as `ISTIO_MUTUAL` is intended to be used without `credentialName` set.
The old behavior can be retained by configuring the `PILOT_ENABLE_LEGACY_ISTIO_MUTUAL_CREDENTIAL_NAME=true` environment variable in Istiod.

- **Fixed** an issue where changes in a delegate VirtualService do not take effect when RDS cache is enabled.
  ([Issue #36525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36525))

- **Fixed** an issue causing mTLS errors for traffic on port 22, by including port 22 in iptables by default.
  ([Issue #35733](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35733))

- **Fixed** an issue causing hostnames overlapping the cluster domain (such as `example.local`) to generate invalid routes.
  ([Issue #35676](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35676))

>  **Fixed** an issue that if duplicated cipher suites were configured in Gateway, they were pushed to Envoy configuration. With this fix, duplicated cipher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Fixed** an issue that if duplicated cipher suites were configured in Gateway, they were pushed to Envoy configuration. With this fix, duplicated cipher
```

- **Fixed** a couple of issues in the ext-authz filter affecting the behavior of the gRPC check response API. Please
see the [Envoy release note](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/version_history/v1.20.0#bug-fixes) for more
details of the bug fixes if you are using authorization policies with the ext-authz gRPC extension provider in Istio.
([Issue #35480](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35480))

## Telemetry

- **Added** configuration for selecting service name generation scheme in Envoy-generated trace spans.
  ([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162) and [#12644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/12644))

- **Added** Common Expression Language (CEL) filter support for access logs.
  ([Issue #36514](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36514))

- **Added** access logging providers and controls for access log filtering to
the Telemetry API.

- **Added** an option to set whether the Request ID generated by the sidecar should be used when determining the sampling strategy for tracing.

> **Added** configurable service-cluster naming scheme support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** configurable service-cluster naming scheme support.
```

- **Updated** istiod deployment to respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
  ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))

- **Fixed** an issue where the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane has active proxies connected.
  ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))

- **Fixed** omission of the `.Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault` setting in the default revision mutating webhook, and added `--auto-inject-namespaces` flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
  ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))

- **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with Helm values did not take effect.
  ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))

- **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the Helm chart to be used as a chart dependency.
  ([Issue #35495](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35495))

- **Fixed** that the Helm chart generated an invalid manifest when given boolean or numeric values for environment variables.
  ([Issue #36946](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36946))

>   **Fixed** detection of `prometheus.io.scrape` annotations when merging metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** detection of `prometheus.io.scrape` annotations when merging metrics.
```

---

> title: Announcing Istio 1.13.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Istio 1.13 Change Notes
```

linktitle: 1.13.0
subtitle: Minor Release

> description: Istio 1.13.0 minor release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Istio 1.13.0 change notes.
```

publishdate: 2021-02-08
release: 1.13.0

> aliases:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
weight: 10
aliases:
```

    - /news/announcing-1.13.0
---

> 
> # Release Notes
> 
> ## Deprecation Notices
> 
> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** an API (CRD) for configuring `ProxyConfig` values containing a stable subset of the configuration from `MeshConfig.DefaultConfig`.

- **Promoted** WorkloadGroup to v1beta1.
  ([Issue #25652](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25652))

- **Improved** istio-agent health probe rewrite to not re-use connections, mirring Kubernetes' probing behavior.
  ([Issue #36390](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36390))

- **Improved** the default `PILOT_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND`, which limits the number of **new** XDS connections per second,
to 25 (from 100). This has been shown to improve performance under high load.

- **Updated** the control plane to read `EndpointSlice` insead of `Endpoints`
for service discovery for Kubernetes 1.21 or later. To switch back to the old
`Endpoints` based behavior set `PILOT_USE_ENDPOINT_SLICE=false` in istiod.

- **Added** support for hostname-based multi-network gateways for east-west traffic. The hostname will be resolved in
the control plane and each of the IPs will be used as an endpoint. This behaviour can be disabled by setting
`RESOLVE_HOSTNAME_GATEWAYS=false` for istiod.  ([Issue #29359](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29359))

> - **Added** support rewriting gRPC probes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for rewriting gRPC probes.
```

- **Added** a feature flag `PILOT_LEGACY_INGRESS_BEHAVIOR`, default to false.

> If this is set to true, istio ingress will perform the legacy behavior,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this is set to true, Istio ingress will perform the legacy behavior,
```

- **Fixed** an issue where specifying conflict protocols for a service target port
will cause unstable protocol selection for that port.
  ([Issue #36462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36462))

- **Fixed** an issue where scaling endpoint for a service from 0 to 1
might cause client side serivce account verification populated incorrectly.
  ([Issue #36456](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36456))

- **Fixed** an issue where TcpKeepalive setting at mesh config is not honored.
  ([Issue #36499](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36499))

- **Fixed** an issue where stale endpoints can be configured when a service gets deleted and created again.
  ([Issue #36510](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36510))

- **Fixed** an issue where istiod crashes if prioritized leader election (controlled via `PRIORITIZED_LEADER_ELECTION` env variable) is disabled.  ([Issue #36541](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36541))

- **Fixed** an issue that sidecar iptables will cause intermittent connection reset due to the out of window packet.

> Introduced a flag meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.INVALID_DROP to control this setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introduced a flag `meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.INVALID_DROP` to control this setting.
```

  ([Issue #36566](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36566))

> - **Fixed** an issue where in place upgrade will cause tcp connection between <1.12 proxy and 1.12 proxy to fail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where an in-place upgrade will cause TCP connections between a <1.12 proxy and a 1.12 proxy to fail.
```

  ([Issue #36797](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36797))

- **Fixed** an issue where `EnvoyFilter` with ANY patch context will skip adding new clusters and listeners at gateway.

- **Fixed** an issue causing HTTP/1.0 requests to be rejected (with a `426 Upgrade Required` error) in some cases.
  ([Issue #36707](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36707))

- **Fixed** an issue where using `ISTIO_MUTUAL` TLS mode in Gateways while also setting `credentialName` cause mutual TLS to not be configured.
This configuration is now rejected, as `ISTIO_MUTUAL` is intended to be used without `credentialName` set.
The old behavior can be retaind by configuring the `PILOT_ENABLE_LEGACY_ISTIO_MUTUAL_CREDENTIAL_NAME=true` environment variable in Istiod.

> - **Fixed** changes in delegate virtual service do not take effect when rds cache enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** changes in delegate virtual service do not take effect when rds cache enabled.
```

> - **Fixed** changes in delegate virtual service do not take effect when rds cache enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where changes in a delegate VirtualService do not take effect when RDS cache is enabled.
```

  ([Issue #36525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36525))

- **Fixed** an issue causing mTLS errors for traffic on port 22, by including port 22 in iptables by default.
  ([Issue #35733](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35733))

- **Fixed** an issue causing hostnames overlapping the cluster domain (such as `example.local`) to generate invalid routes.
  ([Issue #35676](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35676))

## Security

> - **Promoted** the authorization policy dry-run mode to alpha.
>  ([usage]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-dry-run/)) ([Issue #112](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/112))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Promoted** [authorization policy dry-run mode](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-dry-run/) to Alpha. ([Issue #112](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/112))
```

- **Added** TLS settings to the sidecar API in order to enable TLS/mTLS termination on the sidecar proxy for requests
coming from outside the mesh. ([Issue #35111](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35111))

- **Fixed** a couple of issues in the ext-authz filter affecting the behavior of the gRPC check response API. Please
see the [Envoy release note](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/version_history/v1.20.0#bug-fixes) for more
details of the bug fixes if you are using authorization policies with the ext-authz gRPC extension provider in Istio.

> ([Issue #35480#issuecomment-952420951](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35480#issuecomment-952420951))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
([Issue #35480](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35480#issuecomment-952420951))
```

## Telemetry

- **Added** configuration for selecting service name generation scheme in Envoy-generated trace spans.

>   ([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162)),([Issue #12644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/12644))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162) and [#12644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/12644))
```

- **Added** access logging providers and controls for access log filtering to
the Telemetry API.

> - **Added** Add an option to set whether the Request ID generated by the sidecar should be used when determining the sampling strategy for tracing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** an option to set whether the Request ID generated by the sidecar should be used when determining the sampling strategy for tracing.
```

> - **Improved** Istiod JWTRule: Failed JWKS requests are now logged with truncation to 100 characters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Istiod JWTRule: Failed JWKS requests are now logged with truncation to 100 characters.
```

  ([Issue #35663](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35663))

- **Added** Common Expression Language (CEL) filter support for access logs.
  ([Issue #36514](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36514))

## Installation

- **Added** privileged flag to Istio-CNI Helm charts to set `securityContext` flag.
  ([Issue #34211](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34211))

- **Added** istiod deployment respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
  ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))

- **Fixed** the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane have active proxies connected.
  ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))

- **Fixed** omitted setting .Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault in the default revision
mutating webhook and added --auto-inject-namespaces flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
  ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))

- **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with helm values does not take effect.
  ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))

> - **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the chart to be used as a chart depency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the chart to be used as a chart dependency.
```

> - **Added** privileged flag to Istio-CNI Helm charts to set `securityContext` flag.
>   ([Issue #34211](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34211))
> 
> - **Added** istiod deployment respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
>   ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))
> 
> - **Fixed** the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane have active proxies connected.
>   ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))
> 
> - **Fixed** omitted setting .Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault in the default revision
> mutating webhook and added --auto-inject-namespaces flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
>   ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))
> 
> - **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with helm values does not take effect.
>   ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))
> 
> - **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the chart to be used as a chart dependency.
>   ([Issue #35495](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35495))
> 
> - **Fixed** Helm chart generates invalid manifest when given boolean or numeric value for environment variables.
>   ([Issue #36946](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36946))
> 
> - **Removed** support for a number of nonstandard kubeconfig authentication methods when using multicluster secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** a privileged flag to Istio-CNI Helm charts to set `securityContext` flag.
  ([Issue #34211](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34211))

- **Updated** istiod deployment to respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
  ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))

- **Fixed** an issue where the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane has active proxies connected.
  ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))

- **Fixed** omission of the `.Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault` setting in the default revision mutating webhook, and added `--auto-inject-namespaces` flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
  ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))

- **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with Helm values did not take effect.
  ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))

- **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the Helm chart to be used as a chart dependency.
  ([Issue #35495](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35495))

- **Fixed** that the Helm chart generated an invalid manifest when given boolean or numeric values for environment variables.
  ([Issue #36946](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36946))

- **Removed** support for a number of nonstandard `kubeconfig` authentication methods when using multicluster secrets.
```

  ([Issue #35429](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35429))

- **Added** log options to `istioctl install` to prevent unexpected messages.
  ([Issue #35770](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35770))

- **Added** `CLUSTER` column in the output of `istioctl ps` command.

- **Added** the global wildcard pattern match for the bug report `--include` and `--exclude` flag.

- **Added** the output format flag to `operator dump`.

- **Added** `--operatorFileName` flag to `kube-inject` to support iop files.
  ([Issue #36472](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36472))

- **Added** `istioctl analyze` now supports `--ignore-unknown`, which suppresses
errors when non-k8s yaml files are found in a file or directory.
  ([Issue #36471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36471))

- **Added** stats command `istioctl experimental envoy-stats` for retrieving istio-proxy envoy metrics.

- **Fixed** the `--duration` flag never gets used in the `istioctl bug-report` command.

- **Fixed** using flags in `istioctl bug-report` results in errors.
  ([Issue #36103](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36103))

- **Fixed** `operator init --dry-run` creates unexpected namespaces.

> **Fixed** correct error format after json marshal in virtual machine config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** error format after json marshal in virtual machine config.
```

  ([Issue #36358](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36358))

## Documentation changes

- **Fixed** formatting of the telemetry configuration reference page.

# Security update

- This feature extends the IstioIngressListener on SideCar API to allow TLS/mTLS for

> requests originating from outside of the mesh.

Reviewer 4: Isn't this same as line 95 earlier?

```
**Added** TLS settings to the sidecar API in order to enable TLS/mTLS termination on the sidecar proxy for requests coming from outside the mesh.
```

> requests originating from outside of the mesh.

Reviewer 4: If so, there is some details in the proto:  https://github.com/istio/api/pull/2165/files

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.13.0
linktitle: 1.13.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.13.0 minor release.
publishdate: 2021-02-08
release: 1.13.0
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.13.0
---

# Release Notes

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

## Traffic Management

- **Added** an API (CRD) for configuring `ProxyConfig` values containing a stable subset of the configuration from `MeshConfig.DefaultConfig`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Here between "Added" and "Promoted", there are two empty lines. On line 43 to 45, between two "Added", there is only one empty line. Should the number of empty lines between items be consistent?

Reviewer 5: They should be 1 empty line. I put up suggestions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Promoted** WorkloadGroup to v1beta1.
  ([Issue #25652](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25652))

- **Improved** istio-agent health probe rewrite to not re-use connections, mirring Kubernetes' probing behavior.
  ([Issue #36390](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36390))

- **Improved** the default `PILOT_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND`, which limits the number of **new** XDS connections per second,
to 25 (from 100). This has been shown to improve performance under high load.

- **Updated** the control plane to read `EndpointSlice` insead of `Endpoints`
for service discovery for Kubernetes 1.21 or later. To switch back to the old
`Endpoints` based behavior set `PILOT_USE_ENDPOINT_SLICE=false` in istiod.

- **Added** support for hostname-based multi-network gateways for east-west traffic. The hostname will be resolved in
the control plane and each of the IPs will be used as an endpoint. This behaviour can be disabled by setting
`RESOLVE_HOSTNAME_GATEWAYS=false` for istiod.  ([Issue #29359](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29359))

> - **Added** support rewriting gRPC probes

Reviewer 2: Missing an ending period "." at the end of this sentence.

- **Added** a feature flag `PILOT_LEGACY_INGRESS_BEHAVIOR`, default to false.
If this is set to true, istio ingress will perform the legacy behavior,
which does not meet https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#multiple-matches.
  ([Issue #35033](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35033))

> - **Fixed** listeners to balance between Envoy worker threads. Fixes (#18152)[https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18152).  ([Issue #18152](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18152))

Reviewer 2: To have a consistent style, I suggest removing the part "Fixes (#18152)[https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18152)." so that this item has the same style of other "Fixed" items (i.e., describe the fix and attach the issue number).

Reviewer 2: Fixed.

- **Fixed** an issue where stale endpoints can be configured when a service gets deleted and created again.
  ([Issue #36510](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36510))

- **Fixed** an issue where istiod crashes if prioritized leader election (controlled via `PRIORITIZED_LEADER_ELECTION` env variable) is disabled.  ([Issue #36541](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36541))

- **Fixed** an issue that sidecar iptables will cause intermittent connection reset due to the out of window packet.
Introduced a flag meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.INVALID_DROP to control this setting.
  ([Issue #36566](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36566))

- **Fixed** an issue where in place upgrade will cause tcp connection between <1.12 proxy and 1.12 proxy to fail.
  ([Issue #36797](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36797))

- **Fixed** an issue where `EnvoyFilter` with ANY patch context will skip adding new clusters and listeners at gateway.

- **Fixed** an issue causing HTTP/1.0 requests to be rejected (with a `426 Upgrade Required` error) in some cases.
  ([Issue #36707](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36707))

> 

Reviewer 2: There are three empty lines between two "Fixed" items. Should the number of empty lines between items be consistent?

Reviewer 3: I think this is just from the generation tool, but it renders OK:
https://deploy-preview-10849--preliminary-istio.netlify.app/latest/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13/change-notes/

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.13.0
linktitle: 1.13.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.13.0 minor release.
publishdate: 2021-02-08
release: 1.13.0
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.13.0
---

# Release Notes

## Deprecation Notices

> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

Reviewer 3: Nothing is deprecated; so you can remove this section

Reviewer 3: plus the link is wrong and failing lint

## Traffic Management

- **Added** an API (CRD) for configuring `ProxyConfig` values containing a stable subset of the configuration from `MeshConfig.DefaultConfig`.

- **Promoted** WorkloadGroup to v1beta1.
  ([Issue #25652](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25652))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Improved** istio-agent health probe rewrite to not re-use connections, mirring Kubernetes' probing behavior.
  ([Issue #36390](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36390))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Improved** the default `PILOT_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_SECOND`, which limits the number of **new** XDS connections per second,
to 25 (from 100). This has been shown to improve performance under high load.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Updated** the control plane to read `EndpointSlice` insead of `Endpoints`
for service discovery for Kubernetes 1.21 or later. To switch back to the old
`Endpoints` based behavior set `PILOT_USE_ENDPOINT_SLICE=false` in istiod.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** support for hostname-based multi-network gateways for east-west traffic. The hostname will be resolved in
the control plane and each of the IPs will be used as an endpoint. This behaviour can be disabled by setting
`RESOLVE_HOSTNAME_GATEWAYS=false` for istiod.  ([Issue #29359](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/29359))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Added** support rewriting gRPC probes.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** a feature flag `PILOT_LEGACY_INGRESS_BEHAVIOR`, default to false.
If this is set to true, istio ingress will perform the legacy behavior,
which does not meet https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#multiple-matches.
  ([Issue #35033](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35033))

> - **Fixed** listeners to balance between Envoy worker threads. ([Issue #18152](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18152))

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for listeners to balance between Envoy worker threads via `proxyMetadata`. ([Issue #18152](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18152))
```

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where specifying conflict protocols for a service target port
will cause unstable protocol selection for that port.
  ([Issue #36462](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36462))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where scaling endpoint for a service from 0 to 1
might cause client side serivce account verification populated incorrectly.
  ([Issue #36456](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36456))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where TcpKeepalive setting at mesh config is not honored.
  ([Issue #36499](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36499))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where stale endpoints can be configured when a service gets deleted and created again.
  ([Issue #36510](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36510))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where istiod crashes if prioritized leader election (controlled via `PRIORITIZED_LEADER_ELECTION` env variable) is disabled.  ([Issue #36541](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36541))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue that sidecar iptables will cause intermittent connection reset due to the out of window packet.
Introduced a flag meshConfig.defaultConfig.proxyMetadata.INVALID_DROP to control this setting.
  ([Issue #36566](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36566))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where in place upgrade will cause tcp connection between <1.12 proxy and 1.12 proxy to fail.
  ([Issue #36797](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/36797))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue where `EnvoyFilter` with ANY patch context will skip adding new clusters and listeners at gateway.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing HTTP/1.0 requests to be rejected (with a `426 Upgrade Required` error) in some cases.
  ([Issue #36707](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36707))

- **Fixed** an issue where using `ISTIO_MUTUAL` TLS mode in Gateways while also setting `credentialName` cause mutual TLS to not be configured.
This configuration is now rejected, as `ISTIO_MUTUAL` is intended to be used without `credentialName` set.
The old behavior can be retaind by configuring the `PILOT_ENABLE_LEGACY_ISTIO_MUTUAL_CREDENTIAL_NAME=true` environment variable in Istiod.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** changes in delegate virtual service do not take effect when rds cache enabled
  ([Issue #36525](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36525))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing mTLS errors for traffic on port 22, by including port 22 in iptables by default.
  ([Issue #35733](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35733))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing hostnames overlapping the cluster domain (such as `example.local`) to generate invalid routes.
  ([Issue #35676](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35676))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Security

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Promoted** the authorization policy dry-run mode to alpha.
 ([usage]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-dry-run/)) ([Issue #112](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/pull/112))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** TLS settings to the sidecar API in order to enable TLS/mTLS termination on the sidecar proxy for requests
coming from outside the mesh. ([Issue #35111](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35111))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> - **Fixed** a copule of issues in the ext-authz filter affecting the behavior of the gRPC check response API. Please

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a couple of issues in the ext-authz filter affecting the behavior of the gRPC check response API. Please
```

see the [Envoy release note](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/version_history/v1.20.0#bug-fixes) for more
details of the bug fixes if you are using authorization policies with the ext-authz gRPC extension provider in Istio.
([Issue #35480#issuecomment-952420951](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35480#issuecomment-952420951))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Telemetry

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Added** configuration for selecting service name generation scheme in Envoy-generated trace spans.
  ([Issue #36162](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36162)),([Issue #12644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/12644))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** access logging providers and controls for access log filtering to
the Telemetry API.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** Add an option to set whether the Request ID generated by the sidecar should be used when determining the sampling strategy for tracing.

- **Improved** Istiod JWTRule: Failed JWKS requests are now logged with truncation to 100 characters
  ([Issue #35663](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35663))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** Common Expression Language (CEL) filter support for access logs.
  ([Issue #36514](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36514))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Installation

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** privileged flag to Istio-CNI Helm charts to set `securityContext` flag.
  ([Issue #34211](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34211))

- **Added** istiod deployment respect `values.pilot.nodeSelector`.
  ([Issue #36110](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36110))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** the in-cluster operator can't prune resources when the Istio control plane have active proxies connected.
  ([Issue #35657](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35657))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Fixed** omitted setting .Values.sidecarInjectiorWebhook.enableNamespacesByDefault in the default revision
mutating webhook and added --auto-inject-namespaces flag to `istioctl tag` controlling this setting.
  ([Issue #36258](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36258))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Fixed** an issue where setting `includeInboundPorts` with helm values does not take effect.
  ([Issue #36644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36644))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Fixed** an issue that was preventing the chart to be used as a chart depency
  ([Issue #35495](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35495))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Fixed** Helm chart generates invalid manifest when given boolean or numeric value for environment variables.
  ([Issue #36946](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36946))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Removed** support for a number of nonstandard kubeconfig authentication methods when using multicluster secret.

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## istioctl

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** `istioctl analyze` will display a warning when service of type ExternalName have invalid port name or port name is tcp.
  ([Issue #35429](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35429))

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

- **Added** log options to `istioctl install` to prevent unexpected messages.
  ([Issue #35770](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35770))

- **Added** `CLUSTER` column in the output of `istioctl ps` command.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** the global wildcard pattern match for the bug report `--include` and `--exclude` flag.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** the output format flag to `operator dump`.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** `--operatorFileName` flag to `kube-inject` to support iop files.
  ([Issue #36472](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36472))

- **Added** `istioctl analyze` now supports `--ignore-unknown`, which suppresses
errors when non-k8s yaml files are found in a file or directory.
  ([Issue #36471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36471))

- **Added** stats command `istioctl experimental envoy-stats` for retrieving istio-proxy envoy metrics.

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** the `--duration` flag never gets used in the `istioctl bug-report` command.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

- **Fixed** using flags in `istioctl bug-report` results in errors.
  ([Issue #36103](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36103))

- **Fixed** `operator init --dry-run` creates unexpected namespaces.

> 
> -

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

> 
> -

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
